=head1 NAME

cold - Cold

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    cold [-h] [-t TMP] [-i INTERPRETER] [-o OUTPUT] [--keep] [--debug]
        [--version] PATH [PATH ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Cold is a simple Python files bundle creator. All arguments passed to it as
PATH, which could be either directory or plain file, is compressed. A main
file is created that will import the first argumetns from the PATH list and
that's basiscly it.

It does not create a copy of the Python interpreter itself it creates a bundle
of Python scripts.

=head1 OPTIONS

positional arguments:
  PATH                  Files/directories to pack

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit
  -t TMP, --tmp TMP     Change temporary directory
  -i INTERPRETER, --interpreter INTERPRETER
                        Change interpreter
  -o OUTPUT, --output OUTPUT
                        Change output file
  --keep                Keep temporary directory
  --debug               Enable debug messages
  --version             Show Cold version and exit

=head1 EXAMPLES

Create bundle of spm:

    cold src/spm/spm.py src/spm/libspm.py src/libs/*.py -o spm

=head1 EXIT STATUS

MkInitfs returns 0 on success and other on failure.

=head2 Unexpected error (1)

This is a general error. Triggered, most likely, by something that MkInitfs is
not able to handle.

=head2 Internal error (2)

This error raises when something important is missing or failed.

=head2 SUBPROCESS (3)

This error raises when a subprocess, such as Git or Bash, failed to
execute a sub-command.

=head2 SHUTIL (4)

This error raises when the module responsible for shell or system
operations fails badly. Its job usually is to copy or remove files and
directories.

=head2 OS (5)

This error raises when the module responsible for system files and
directories information gathering fails badly. Its job usually is to
check if X is file, symbolic link or directory.

=head2 IO (6)

This error raises when there is something wrong with the file/directory
permissions.

=head2 Interupt signal received (7)

This error raises when the user triggers keyboard interrupt via Ctrl+C key
combination.

=head1 BUGS

None

=head1 AUTHORS

Ivailo Monev (a.k.a. SmiL3y) <xakepa10@gmail.com>

Copyright (c) 2013-2015 Ivailo Monev licensed through custom license, see the
COPYING file bundled with the source code.

=head1 SEE ALSO

python(1)
