=head1 NAME

lsinitfs - LsInitfs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    lsinitfs [-h] [-t TMP] [-k KERNEL] [-i IMAGE] [--keep] [--debug]
        [--version]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

LsInitfs is a initial RAM filesystem image content lister.

=head1 OPTIONS

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit
  -t TMP, --tmp TMP     Change temporary directory
  -k KERNEL, --kernel KERNEL
                        Change kernel version
  -i IMAGE, --image IMAGE
                        Change output image
  --keep                Keep temporary directory
  --debug               Enable debug messages
  --version             Show LsInitfs version and exit

=head1 EXAMPLES

List image of currently running kernel:

    lsinitfs

List image of kernel other than the one running:

    lsinitfs -k=3.12.24

=head1 EXIT STATUS

LsInitfs returns 0 on success and other on failure.

=head2 Unexpected error (1)

This is a general error. Triggered, most likely, by something that LsInitfs is
not able to handle.

=head2 Internal error (2)

This error raises when something important is missing or failed.

=head2 SUBPROCESS (3)

This error raises when a subprocess, such as Git or Bash, failed to
execute a sub-command.

=head2 SHUTIL (4)

This error raises when the module responsible for shell or system
operations fails badly. Its job usually is to copy or remove files and
directories.

=head2 OS (5)

This error raises when the module responsible for system files and
directories information gathering fails badly. Its job usually is to
check if X is file, symbolic link or directory.

=head2 IO (6)

This error raises when there is something wrong with the file/directory
permissions.

=head2 Interupt signal received (7)

This error raises when the user triggers keyboard interrupt via Ctrl+C key
combination.

=head1 BUGS

None

=head1 AUTHORS

Ivailo Monev (a.k.a. SmiL3y) <xakepa10@gmail.com>

Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Ivailo Monev licensed through custom license, see the
COPYING file bundled with the source code.

=head1 SEE ALSO

mkinitfs(8) gzip(1) cpio(1)
