=head1 NAME

powerd - Power Daemon

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Power Daemon manages system power state and filesystems. This including rebooting,
shutting down, suspending the system, mounting filesystems when they appear,
controlling cpu and other devices power saving features. Is uses dbus for Inter
Processes Communcation (IPC) to secure the actions taken via dbus policies.

The Power Daemon configuration is done via one single configuration file -
/etc/powerd.conf. For more information see powerd.conf(5).

A command-line utillity for controlling `powerd` is provided - powerctl. It can
tell the running `powerd` process to execute actions on user demands instead of
doing it on own consideration. For more information see powerctl(8)

=head1 EXIT STATUS

SPM returns 0 on success and other on failure.
	
=head2 Unexpected error (1)

This is a general error. Triggered, most likely, by something that SPM is
not able to handle.

=head2 Internal error (2)

This error raises when a dependency, library, or other important thing
is missing or failed.

=head2 CONFIGPARSER (3)

This error raises when, at runtime, the module responsible for parsing
the config files fails badly. Its job usually is to parse the main,
repositories and mirrors configuration files.

=head2 SUBPROCESS (4)

This error raises when a subprocess, such as Git or Bash, failed to
execute a sub-command.

=head2 OS (5)

This error raises when the module responsible for system files and
directories information gathering fails badly. Its job usually is to
check if X is file, symlink or directory.

=head2 IO (6)

This error raises when there is something wrong with the file/directory
permissions.

=head2 REGEXP (7)

This error raises when the module responsible for regular expressions
matching fails badly. If in doubt you should check the Python Re module
reference at http://docs.python.org/2/library/re.html.

=head2 Interupt signal received (8)

This error raises when the user triggers keyboard interrupt via Ctrl+C key
combination.

=head1 BUGS

None known.

=head1 AUTHORS

Ivailo Monev (a.k.a. SmiL3y) <xakepa10@gmail.com>

Copyright (c) 2013 Ivailo Monev licensed through the GNU General Public License

=head1 SEE ALSO

dbus-daemon(1) powerd.conf(5) powerctl(8)
