=head1 NAME

powerd.conf - Power Daemon configuration file

=head1 DESCRIPTION

powerd.conf is the configuration file used by Power Daemon. It is divided into
sections - reboot, shutdown, suspend, mount, unmount, battery and power. These
sections represent options taken into account the system is going to be put into.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 REBOOT

=head3 pre

Programs to be executed before the actuall reboot.

Default:

=head2 SHUTDOWN

=head3 pre

Programs to be executed before the actuall shutdown.

Default:

=head2 SUSPEND

=head3 pre

Programs to be executed before the actuall suspend.

Default:

=head3 disk

Disk state during the suspend. Proper values for this option are platform,
shutdown, reboot or suspend. To check what your current system supports
`cat /sys/power/disk`.

Default: platform

=head3 state

Power state during the suspend. Proper values for this option are freeze,
standby, mem or disk. Note that standby is not valid on all platforms. To check
what your current system supports `cat /sys/power/state`.

Default: mem

=head3 post

Programs to be executed after the actuall suspend.

Default:

=head2 MOUNT

=head3 pre

Programs to be executed before the actuall mount.

Default:

=head3 post

Programs to be executed after the actuall mount.

Default:

=head2 UNMOUNT

=head3 pre

Programs to be executed before the actuall unmount.

Default:

=head3 post

Programs to be executed after the actuall unmount.

Default:

=head2 BATTERY

=head3 lid

Action to be taken when the LID is closed while on Direct Current (DC). Proper
values for this option are suspend or shutdown.

Default: suspend

=head3 low

Action to be taken when the battery is low while on Direct Current (DC). Proper
values for this option are suspend or shutdown.

Default: suspend

=head3 cpu

CPU mode to be set while on Direct Current (DC). Proper values for this option
are performance, userspace, ondemand or conservative. Note that depending on
your CPU and kernel configuration those may not be available.

Default: ondemand

=head2 POWER

=head3 lid

Action to be taken when the LID is closed while on Alternating Current (AC).
Proper values for this option are suspend or shutdown.

Default: suspend

=head3 cpu

CPU mode to be set while on Alternating Current (AC). Proper values for this
option are performance, userspace, ondemand or conservative. Note that depending
on your CPU and kernel configuration those may not be available.

Default: performance

=head1 EXAMPLES

[mount]

pre =

post =

=head1 FILES

/etc/powerd.conf

=head1 AUTHORS

Ivailo Monev (a.k.a. SmiL3y) <xakepa10@gmail.com>

Copyright (c) 2013 Ivailo Monev licensed through the GNU General Public License

=head1 SEE ALSO

spm(8) SRCBUILD(5) make(1) strip(1)
