=head1 NAME

powerctl - Power Controller

=head1 SYNOPSIS

powerctl [-h] [-r] [-s] [-S] [-m MOUNT] [-u UNMOUNT] [-p] [-e] [-v]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Power Controller is a command-line utillity for controlling `powerd`. It can
tell the running `powerd` process to execute actions on user demands instead of
doing them on own consideration.

=head1 OPTIONS

optional arguments:
  -r, --reboot          Reboot system
  -s, --shutdown        Halt system
  -S, --suspend         Suspend system
  -m/--mount MOUNT      Mount device
  -u/--unmount UNMOUNT  Unmount device
  -p, --ping            Wakeup power daemon
  -e, --exit            Kill power daemon
  -v, --version         Show Power Control version and exit
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit

=head1 EXIT STATUS

SPM returns 0 on success and other on failure.
	
=head2 Unexpected error (1)

This is a general error. Triggered, most likely, by something that SPM is
not able to handle.

=head2 Internal error (2)

This error raises when a dependency, library, or other important thing
is missing or failed.

=head2 CONFIGPARSER (3)

This error raises when, at runtime, the module responsible for parsing
the config files fails badly. Its job usually is to parse the main,
repositories and mirrors configuration files.

=head2 SUBPROCESS (4)

This error raises when a subprocess, such as Git or Bash, failed to
execute a sub-command.

=head2 OS (5)

This error raises when the module responsible for system files and
directories information gathering fails badly. Its job usually is to
check if X is file, symlink or directory.

=head2 IO (6)

This error raises when there is something wrong with the file/directory
permissions.

=head2 REGEXP (7)

This error raises when the module responsible for regular expressions
matching fails badly. If in doubt you should check the Python Re module
reference at http://docs.python.org/2/library/re.html.

=head2 DBUS (8)

This error raises when there is something wrong with the dbus calls.

=head2 Interupt signal received (9)

This error raises when the user triggers keyboard interrupt via Ctrl+C key
combination.

=head1 BUGS

None known.

=head1 AUTHORS

Ivailo Monev (a.k.a. SmiL3y) <xakepa10@gmail.com>

Copyright (c) 2013 Ivailo Monev licensed through the GNU General Public License

=head1 SEE ALSO

dbus-daemon(1) powerd(8) powerd.conf(5)
