=head1 NAME

spm - Source Package Manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  spm [-h] [--cache CACHE] [--build BUILD] [--root ROOT] [--gpg GPG]
    [--shell SHELL] [--ignore IGNORE] [--sign SIGN]
    [--notify {True,False}] [--offline {True,False}]
    [--mirror {True,False}] [--timeout TIMEOUT] [--verify {True,False}]
    [--chost CHOST] [--cflags CFLAGS] [--cxxflags CXXFLAGS]
    [--cppflags CPPFLAGS] [--ldflags LDFLAGS] [--makeflags MAKEFLAGS]
    [--purge PURGE] [--man {True,False}] [--split {True,False}]
    [--binaries {True,False}] [--shared {True,False}]
    [--static {True,False}] [--missing {True,False}]
    [--conflicts {True,False}] [--backup {True,False}]
    [--scripts {True,False}] [--triggers {True,False}]
    [--debug] [--version]
    {repo,remote,source,local,who} ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Source Package Manager (SPM) manages targets, or packages, build from source
code. It is designed to fetch, extract, build and install compiled files on
the system. What it does using different approach is that SPM detects library
dependencies at install time so that dependencies are resolved in matter of
what is needed by the library and binary files of the target by running
`scanelf` on them, checking if the library is in the target itself, in local
(installed) target or not in managed target. This ensures that all runtime
libraries will be present and the dependencies are not "static" and do not rely
on tree of dependencies keeping the system off of broken applications because
of missing runtime dependencies and reducing the work needed on packaging.
Also, it probes for scripting languages such as Bash or Python by looking for
shebangs in the files. Note that extra (runtime time, as well as make)
dependencies can still be specified and are checked for at the prepare stage
but they are useful only when bootstrapping as software and more importantly
its dependencies usually change upon upgrade from one release to another making
them, in some cases, incomplete or non-valid. An example is gtk2 - according
to Pacman it has the following dependencies:

    atk pango xorg-libraries cairo gdk-pixbuf

and according to SPM:

    atk pango xorg-libraries cairo gdk-pixbuf bash python2 glib glibc pixman
    libpng harfbuzz libffi pcre icu gcc freetype2 zlib bzip2 expat fontconfig

With all dependencies listed stored by SPM it is nearly impossible to break
the dependencies of applications when removing software from the system, unless
you want it and instruct SPM to do it for you that is. Of course this can be
achieved with other package managers too but it's much more work, SPM makes
your life easier and keeps your system safe.

All metadata is stored in JSON files separate for each software, while this
increases the disk I/O slightely it makes it possible to easily recover from
disasters and fix issues in cases SPM is not being able to handle such as
missing Python runtime library for whatever the reason. Do note that SPM caches
internally the files content (metadatas and SRCBUILDs) in the system memory
(RAM) and rebuilds the caches when needed to reduce the lookup overheath. The
cache itself is build only when needed (on the first lookup). It does not use
locks and multiple instances can be run at the same time with, minimal risk of
race condition. That is something that few package manager support and has many
advantages.

Remote sources (files, such as tarballs) are being checked after they are
fetched by comparing the remote and local file size instead of using checksums
as most Package Managers do to avoid the need of updating the checksums in the
build recipe (SRCBUILD) whenever a local source file, shipped with the target
files, is updated (makepkg -g >> PKGBUILD anyone?). Note that security wise this
is not a good approach as there is no easy way for an administrator to know
whether the remote file size has changed since the last time it was requested
which means an attacker can exploit this and modify the file content feeding it
to SPM. As a protection SPM supports checking OpenPGP signatures when available
but that is up to the host to provide and packager to support by adding the
singature URL to the sources array in the SRCBUILD along with the key ID to the
pgpkeys array.

Using Source Package Manager and following the LFS/BLFS book you can tailor a
system exactly to your liking without keeping track of what links against what
and still be able to build, manage and query targets. Once you have the most
essential software on your system and you start building upon it (following the
BLFS book and writing your own SRCBUILDs for an example) you rarely will have
to worry about the runtime dependencies as they will be detected for you. This
can reduce the work needed to build a big stack of software (X.Org, KDE, GNOME,
etc.). However, given the fact that SPM checks for dependencies specified in
the build recipe when doing preparations you can still order the build process
the way you see fit, adding explicit and optional dependencies by choice by
specifying them in the SRCBUILD. Usually, you will only have to specify only
those that are needed to build, not run, the software.

Repositories with target (package) files for the most essential software are
enabled by default but you can maintain your own repositories with Git,
Subversion (SVN) or even rsync. This has the advantage of doing incremental
updates. Using Content Version System (Git or SVN) allows going back and forth
in the history of the repository thus building older version of software would
be as easy as checking out the right change set and then issuing the usual
build command via SPM.

Major libraries version changes will be handled properly too. For an example,
when curl changes the library version and when building curl the reverse
dependencies will be scanned, if SPM is told to, looking for a missing runtime
library and when found the reverse dependencies of curl will be rebuild if
needed automatically for you. This is done when merging a target/tarball.

On merge all files with .conf extension will be backed up as <file>.conf.backup.
You can explicitly tell SPM which files to backup as sometimes files do not have
a .conf extension but must be backed up. Keep in mind that if you merge a target
twice the backup files will be replaced and your custom file will be lost so you
have to update the original or merge the backup with the new file if you want to
preserve your changes right after merge.

After compiling and installing the software (to temporary location), a tarball
of the installed files is created. It also contains the information needed for
SPM to know that a target is installed (metadata.json and SRCBUILD). This way
if, for whatever the reason, SPM chokes you can decompress the tarball with:

    sudo tar -xapPhf /var/cache/spm/tarballs/<tarball> -C /
 
and it will be picked up by SPM as present on the system, no magic tricks
needed.

Upon targets merge or removal triggers for updating manual pages, desktop files,
MIME and other database will be activated to take care of common actions
avoiding code duplication in pre/post scripts.

Mirrors for sources can be used so that fetching sources is faster and more
reliable, for an example when the upstream servers are down for maintenance.
Several mirrors are enabled by default. During a download if an URL error
occurs the fetcher automatically switches to another mirror, if possible.

Information about both local and remote targets can be queried with regular
expressions that will match in the target name only, not in the metadata
itself (e.g. in the description). You can also use SPM in your own scripts
by using the plain printing argument which makes it easy to wrap around.

Ignoring missing dependencies, libraries and misc sanity checks fails can
be done by passing the appropriate argument. Check the OPTIONS section
for all options available. Additional utilities are packed in Source Package
Manager Tools to assist in the system maintenance. You can read more about
them in spm-tools(8) manual page. SPM doesn't implement many features known
from other Package Managers such as target home page URL and other common
features but it has strived to provide small and easy to extend future set.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 MAIN

positional arguments:
  {repo,remote,source,local,who}
  repo                Clean, sync, prune and/or check repositories for updates
  remote              Get remote targets metadata
  source              Build software from source code
  local               Get local targets metadata
  who                 Get owner of files via regular expression

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --cache CACHE         Change cache directory
  --build BUILD         Change build directory
  --root ROOT           Change system root directory
  --gpg GPG             Change GnuPG home directory
  --shell SHELL         Change which shell to use
  --ignore IGNORE       Change ignored targets
  --sign SIGN           Set whether to sign files
  --notify {True,False}
                        Set whether to use inotify to monitor databases
  --offline {True,False}
                        Set whether to use offline mode
  --mirror {True,False}
                        Set whether to use mirrors
  --timeout TIMEOUT     Set the connection timeout
  --verify {True,False}
                        Set whether to verify downloads
  --chost CHOST         Change CHOST
  --cflags CFLAGS       Change CFLAGS
  --cxxflags CXXFLAGS   Change CXXFLAGS
  --cppflags CPPFLAGS   Change CPPFLAGS
  --ldflags LDFLAGS     Change LDFLAGS
  --makeflags MAKEFLAGS
                        Change MAKEFLAGS
  --purge PURGE         Change PURGE_PATHS
  --man {True,False}    Set whether to compress man pages
  --split {True,False}  Set whether to split debug symbols from binaries and libraries
  --binaries {True,False}
                        Set whether to strip binaries
  --shared {True,False}
                        Set whether to strip shared libraries
  --static {True,False}
                        Set whether to strip static libraries
  --missing {True,False}
                        Set whether to ignore missing runtime dependencies
  --conflicts {True,False}
                        Set whether to check for conflicts
  --backup {True,False}
                        Set whether to backup files
  --scripts {True,False}
                        Set whether to execute pre/post script
  --triggers {True,False}
                        Set whether to execute triggers
  --debug               Enable debug messages
  --version             Show SPM version and exit

NOTE: Some features are available only to the root user.

=head2 REPO MODE

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit
  -c, --clean           Purge repositories
  -s, --sync            Sync repositories
  -p, --prune           Prune old repositories
  -u, --update          Check repositories for updates
  -a, --all             Short for clean, sync, prune and update

=head2 REMOTE MODE

positional arguments:
  PATTERN               Pattern to search for in remote targets

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit
  -n, --name            Show target name
  -v, --version         Show target version
  -r, --release         Show target release
  -d, --description     Show target description
  -D, --depends         Show target depends
  -O, --optdepends   Show target optdepends
  -m, --makedepends     Show target makedepends
  -c, --checkdepends    Show target checkdepends
  -s, --sources         Show target sources
  -k, --pgpkeys         Show target PGP keys
  -o, --options         Show target options
  -b, --backup          Show target backups
  -p, --plain           Print in plain format

=head2 SOURCE MODE

positional arguments:
  TARGETS               Targets to apply actions on

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit
  -C, --clean           Purge sources and compiled files of target
  -f, --fetch           Fetch sources of target
  -p, --prepare         Prepare sources of target
  -c, --compile         Compile sources of target
  -k, --check           Check sources of target
  -i, --install         Install compiled files of target
  -m, --merge           Merge compiled files of target to system
  -r, --remove          Remove compiled files of target from system
  -D, --depends         Consider dependency targets
  -R, --reverse         Consider reverse dependency targets
  -u, --update          Apply actions only if update is available
  -a, --automake        Short for clean, prepare, compile, install and merge

=head2 LOCAL MODE

positional arguments:
  PATTERN               Pattern to search for in local targets

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit
  -n, --name            Show target name
  -v, --version         Show target version
  -R, --release         Show target release
  -d, --description     Show target description
  -D, --depends         Show target depends
  -O, --optdepends      Show target optdepends
  -A, --autodepends     Show target optdepends
  -r, --reverse         Show target reverse depends
  -s, --size            Show target size
  -f, --footprint       Show target footprint
  -p, --plain           Print in plain format

=head2 WHO MODE

positional arguments:
  PATTERN               Pattern to search for in local targets

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit
  -p, --plain           Print in plain format

=head1 EXAMPLES

Clean, sync repositories and check for updates:

    sudo spm repo -csu

Print all remote targets names:

    spm remote -n ^

Clean, prepare, build dependencies, compile, install and merge remote
targets:

    spm source -CpDcim file gawk

Clean, prepare, compile dependencies, compile, install, merge and finally
re-compile reverse dependencies if needed of all local targets but only if
they are outdated and don't execute pre/post actions:

    sudo spm --scripts=False source -aDRu system

Rebuild all revere dependencies of glibc:

    spm local -rp glibc | sudo spm source -aD -

Remove grub and the targets that depend on it (reverse dependencies):

    sudo spm source -rR grub

Print bash, glibc and ncurses targets name and version in
plain list format:

    spm local -nvp 'bash$|glibc|ncurses'

Print the owner of 'bin/bash':

    spm who 'bin/bash\b'

Note that remote, local and who modes accept regexp similar to those in Perl.
For more information visit http://docs.python.org/2/library/re.html. Source
mode accepts base (e.g. foo), directory (e.g. /home/me/foo) with SRCBUILD in
it, aliases (e.g. base) which you can find on the top-level of a repository as
foo.alias or finally meta groups - currently only two - world and system.

Modes that support targets passing (accept the TARGETS argument) support
standard input passing via "-" as TARGETS and piping the executable.

=head1 EXIT STATUS

SPM returns 0 on success and other on failure.

=head2 Unexpected error (1)

This is a general error. Triggered, most likely, by something that SPM is
not able to handle.

=head2 Internal error (2)

This error raises when a dependency, library, or other important thing
is missing or failed.

=head2 CONFIGPARSER (3)

This error raises when, at runtime, the module responsible for parsing the
configuration files fails badly. Its job usually is to parse the main,
repositories and mirrors configuration files.

=head2 SUBPROCESS (4)

This error raises when a subprocess, such as Git or Bash, failed to
execute a sub-command.

=head2 URLLIB (5)

This error raises when, at the prepare stage, the module responsible for
fetching files hits a wall. This can be '404 Not Found' or
'500 Internal Server Error'. For more info visit
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes.

=head2 TARFILE (6)

This error raises when, at the prepare or merge stage, the module
responsible for compressing and decompressing Tar archives fails badly.

=head2 ZIPFILE (7)

This error raises when, at the prepare stage, the module responsible
for compressing and decompressing Zip archives fails badly.

=head2 SHUTIL (8)

This error raises when the module responsible for shell or system
operations fails badly. Its job usually is to copy or remove files and
directories.

=head2 OS (9)

This error raises when the module responsible for system files and
directories information gathering fails badly. Its job usually is to
check if X is file, symbolic link or directory.

=head2 IO (10)

This error raises when there is something wrong with the file/directory
permissions.

=head2 REGEXP (11)

This error raises when the module responsible for regular expressions
matching fails badly. If in doubt you should check the Python Re module
reference at http://docs.python.org/2/library/re.html.

=head2 Interupt signal received (12)

This error raises when the user triggers keyboard interrupt via Ctrl+C key
combination.

=head1 BUGS

=head2 PYTHON MODULES

HTTPS requests do not do any verification of the server's certificate. For more
info visit http://docs.python.org/2/library/urllib2.html. Note that this
affects only Python versions older than 2.7.9.

There are three tar formats that are supported by the tarfile module. For more
info visit http://docs.python.org/2/library/tarfile.html#supported-tar-formats.
Note that the Zip and XZ formats are supported by SPM, the later via subprocess
calling `tar` or `bsdtar` directly.

=head1 AUTHORS

Ivailo Monev (a.k.a. SmiL3y) <xakepa10@laimg.moc>

Copyright (c) 2012-2017 Ivailo Monev licensed through custom license, see the
COPYING file bundled with the source code.

=head1 SEE ALSO

spm.conf(5) SRCBUILD(5) spm-tools(8) scanelf(1) tar(1) bsdtar(1) xz(1)
file(1) man-db(1) git(1) locale(7)

